The medical name for bad breath is halitosis.
Food particles breaking down
in and around your teeth
can give off a bad odor.
Particles that remain due to
poor dental hygiene
can cause a build up of bacteria,
which release sulfur compounds
that make your breath smell bad.
If not removed, bacteria that attach
themselves to tooth enamel
can form a film called plaque.
Plaque produces acid that eats away at tooth enamel;
causing the holes we call cavities.
Sinus problems that lead to
increased production of mucus
provide a breeding ground for bacteria
that cause bad breath.
Another cause of halitosis
is bacterial infection of the tonsils,
known as tonsillitis.